Jolted by recent statement of General Ipoola Alani Akinrinade (rtd) that Igbos should have been allowed to secede, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Sunny Onuesoke has added his voice to the claim by advising the Federal Government on the best way to resolve the Igbos agitation for self realization. Speaking to group of journalists in Abuja, Onuesoke said  people and ethnic nationalities  have rights that must be respected,  adding that if the Igbos  wants to be on their own, they should be allowed to go. He, however advised that for there to be avoidable bloodshed,  the Federal Government should conduct a referendum among the Igbos both in Nigeria and Diaspora over their demand for self determination  so that some of them are not forced against the wish. According to him, “In 1973 Northern Ireland voted in referendum either to be part of United Kingdom or not and the citizens voted against it.  Scotland equally conducted referendum in 2014 to break away from UK but the people also voted against it. Just recently, in June 2016 United Kingdom conducted a referendum on either to stay in European Union or not and they voted in favour of it. Such experiment should also be emulated in the case of the Igbos.” He argued that it is a fact that the different regions that made up Nigeria were  brought together by Lord Lugard during the 1914 amalgamation without taking into consideration their historical and cultural diversification, stressing that the only policy that would have made Nigeria intact  and peaceful is when they practice true federalism. Onuesoke  who  is one of the agitators of true federalism stressed that since Nigerian leaders refused to tow the line of true federalism, the best line of action is that those who want to go their way like the Igbos should be allowed to  go but the it should be done through referendum. “Why must we force ourselves to live together in a fake entity created whites?Hausa,  Fulanis,  Yorubas, Igbos, Nupe and Kanuri among others  do  not have any genealogical, cultural, language, beliefs, ideological and  even looks affiliations. “Is it difficult to understand that Yoruba and Igbo do not share common ancestry, and their cohabiting is not of their freewill or consent, but by coercion of the meddlesome British empire? That migrant Fulani’s, who share same DNA with Berbers and Tuaregs of North Africa are incompatible with Igbo’s who share similar DNA with Jews of Israel,” he  stated. 13 comments Do you get a good or bad response from your wife after making love? Discover a great natural solution that changed my story and put an end to weak/premature ejaculation, CLICK HERE. 